# Project Title: EDA to Typhoon Mitigation and Response Framework (TMRF)

**Introduction**

The Philippines' apparent vulnerability to natural disasters emerges from its geographic location within the Pacific Ring of Fire. The country is surrounded by large bodies of water and faces the Pacific Ocean, which produces 60% of the world's typhoons. Approximately twenty tropical cyclones pass through the Philippine area of responsibility each year, ten of which are typhoons and five of which are catastrophic (Brown, 2013). Due to a lack of preparedness and response, families in rural areas are more likely to be hit. According to the Weather Underground (n.d.), hurricanes are becoming a global threat as they solidify and more super tropical storms emerge. As a result, every municipality should have a high level of safety and security. However, government agencies and non-governmental organizations promote emergency preparedness, but they have yet to acquire the public's general attention. Preparedness is indeed the way of transforming a community's awareness of potential natural hazards into actions that strengthen its ability to respond to and recover from disasters. Proposals for preparedness must address the immediate response and all the longer-term recovery and rehabilitation.

The Philippines' apparent vulnerability to natural disasters emerges from its geographic location within the Pacific Ring of Fire. The country is surrounded by large bodies of water and faces the Pacific Ocean, which produces 60% of the world's typhoons. Approximately twenty tropical cyclones pass through the Philippine area of responsibility each year, ten of which are typhoons and five of which are catastrophic (Brown, 2013). Due to a lack of preparedness and response, families in rural areas are more likely to be hit. According to the Weather Underground (n.d.), hurricanes are becoming a global threat as they solidify and more super tropical storms emerge. As a result, every municipality should have a high level of safety and security. However, government agencies and non-governmental organizations in the Philippines promote emergency preparedness, but they have yet to acquire the public's general attention; like in Yolanda's storm surge disaster, where there is insufficient public awareness of storm surges, higher casualties have occurred (Commission on Audit, n.d.). The Commission on Audit (n.d.) also reported that the mayor of Tacloban City stated that more lives may have been saved if storm surges were labeled as tsunami-like. According to the National Research Council et al. (1991), preparedness is indeed the way of transforming a community's awareness of potential natural hazards into actions that strengthen its ability to respond to and recover from disasters. Proposals for preparedness must address the immediate response and all the longer-term recovery and rehabilitation.

This analysis aims to construct an Exploratory Data Analysis of Typhoons from 2019 that prompted the most casualty rates in the country and data on the municipal governments that had the least number of affected families' individuals per typhoon. Moreover, global datasets about hurricanes in the U.S. from the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters' Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT) will be utilized in the same manner as mentioned in the Philippines Data set to know which location in the United States had the most successful response and mitigation plan for typhoons. This information will be used to construct a Typhoon Mitigation and Response Plan that may help the Philippines deal with hurricanes. Integrating various programs from other countries will increase the likelihood of Filipinos' survival and recovery from typhoons.

The objective of this analysis is to construct an Exploratory Data Analysis to Typhoons from the year 2019 that prompted the most casualty rates in the country and data on the municipal governments that had the least number of affected families individuals per typhoon. Moreover, global datasets about hurricanes from the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters' Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT) will be utilized in the same manner as mentioned in the Philippines Data set to know which Location in the United States had the most successful response and mitigation plan for typhoons. This information will be used to construct a Typhoon Mitigation and Response Plan that may help the Philippines deal with hurricanes. Integrating various programs from other countries will increase the likelihood of Filipinos' survival and recovery from typhoons.


**Problem Statement**

    **The primary issue addressed by this project is the lack of a mitigation and response framework among the cities and municipalities located throughout the Philippine archipelago. This was a significant component that might have a long-term impact on the lives of all Filipinos. Concerning this subject, the Senate Economic Planning Office (2017) conducted a study that evaluates the most often experienced problems and issues by various organizations in the Philippines. Among these concerns include a lack of coordination and collaboration amongst parties, the inadequate ability of line agencies and local government units to carry out DRRM tasks; reduced emphasis assigned to DRRM operations; inadequate enforcement of rules and policies; and scarcity of and difficulty in obtaining DRRM data/information. These are the concerns that this study seeks to address.**

**Significance of the proposed project**

**Methods**

**Expected output**
